Move security guidelines (#144)
aptos-labs/developer-docs: docs/move/move-on-aptos/move-security-guidelines.md

---

> title: "Move Security Guidelines"

Reviewer: I would just call it "Security" to align with the other sections

---

# Move Security Guidelines

# Introduction

The Move language is designed with security and inherently offers several features including a type system and a linear logic. Despite this, its novelty and the intricacies of some business logic mean that developers might not always be familiar with Move's secure coding patterns, potentially leading to bugs.

This guide addresses this gap by detailing common anti-patterns and their secure alternatives. It provides practical examples to illustrate how security issues can arise and recommends best practices for secure coding. This guide aims to sharpen developers' understanding of Move's security mechanisms and ensure the robust development of smart contracts.

> # Access Control

Reviewer: considering the right column indexes from H2 onward, would it make sense to shift all the headers by 1? so `Access Control` is `##`, `Object Access Control` is `###` and so forth

```rust
#[view]
public fun read_only() { ... }
```

- The `entry` modifier in Move is used to indicate entry points for transactions. Functions with the `entry` modifier serve as the starting point of execution when a transaction is submitted to the blockchain.

```rust
entry fun f(){}
```

To summarize:

|                | Module itself | Other Modules                     | Aptos CLI/SDK |
| -------------- | ------------- | --------------------------------- | ------------- |
| private        | ✅            | ⛔                                | ⛔            |
| public(friend) | ✅            | ✅ if friend<br></br>⛔ otherwise | ⛔            |
| public         | ✅            | ✅                                | ⛔            |
| entry          | ✅            | ⛔                                | ✅            |

This layered visibility ensures that only authorized entities can execute certain functions, greatly reducing the risk of bugs or attacks that compromise contract integrity.

Note that it’s possible to combine `entry` with `public` or `public(friend)`

> ```rust

Reviewer 2: You can change all of these to as it's supported in github
````
```move
...
```
````

The code below outlines a simplified version of a flash loan.

In the `flash_loan<T>` function, a user can borrow a given amount of coins type **`T`** along with a `Receipt` that records the borrowed amount plus a fee that should be returned to the protocol before the end of the transaction.

The `repay_flash_loan<T>` function accepts a `Receipt` and a `Coin<T>` as parameters. The function extracts the repayment amount from the `Receipt` and asserts that the value of the returned `Coin<T>` is greater than or equal to the amount specified in the `Receipt`, however there’s no check to ensure that the `Coin<T>` returned is the same as the `Coin<T>`that was initially loaned out, giving the ability to repay the loan with a coin of lesser value.

```rust
struct Coin<T> {
    amount: u64
}

struct Receipt {
    amount: u64
}

public fun flash_loan<T>(user: &signer, amount: u64): (Coin<T>, Receipt) {
    let coin, fee = withdraw(user, amount);
    ( coin, Receipt {amount: amount + fee} )
}

public fun repay_flash_loan<T>(rec: Receipt, coins: Coin<T>) {
    let Receipt{ amount } = rec;
    assert!(coin::value<T>(&coin) >= rec.amount, 0);
    deposit(coin);
}
```

### Example Secure Code

> The Aptos Framework sample below creates a key-value table consisting of two generic types `K` and `V` . Its related `add` functions accepts as parameters a `Table<K, V>` object, a `key`, and a `value` of types `K` and `V` . The `phantom` syntax ensures that the key and value types cannot be different than those in the table, preventing type mismatches. [Read more](https://diem.github.io/move/generics.html#phantom-type-parameters) about `phantom` type parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Aptos Framework sample below creates a key-value table consisting of two generic types `K` and `V` . Its related `add` functions accepts as parameters a `Table<K, V>` object, a `key`, and a `value` of types `K` and `V` . The `phantom` syntax ensures that the key and value types cannot be different than those in the table, preventing type mismatches. [Read more](https://aptos.dev/move/book/generics/#phantom-type-parameters) about `phantom` type parameters.
```
